CI/CD : Continuous integration and continuous delivery (deployment).

CI : Development, Build, Testing
CD : Deploy

VCS : Version control system.
DVCS : Distributed Version Control System

SDLC : Software development lifecycles.

SSDLC : Secure software development lifecycles.

PPE : Poisoned pipeline execution ( an attacker has direct write access to a repository pipeline )


Remediate attacks on CI/CD : 
        Preventing unauthorised repository changes ( change the "Allowed to push" to no one )

Old DVCS :
        BitKeeper

Insufficient Credential Hygiene :
        Recommendations:
                Ensure that credentials follow the principle of least privilege from code to deployment.
                Avoid sharing the same credentials across multiple contexts to maintain 
                accountability and simplify privilege management.
                Use temporary credentials whenever possible, and establish procedures to 
                rotate static credentials and detect stale credentials periodically.
                Ensure credentials are only used under predefined conditions, such as 
                limiting usage to a specific IP address or identity.
                Detect secrets pushed to and stored in code repositories using Integrated 
                Development Environments (IDE) plugins, automatic scanning, and periodic repository commit scans.
                Use built-in vendor options or third-party tools to prevent secrets from being printed 
                to console outputs during builds and ensure existing outputs do not contain secrets.
                Verify that secrets are removed from artifacts, such as container image layers and binaries.
        Environment Variables and Best Practices :
                Avoid hardcoding sensitive information in code; use environment variables instead.
                Regularly review and rotate credentials stored in environment variables.
                Limit access to environment variables to authorized personnel only.
                Environment variables should be set according to the principle of least privilege.
                Implement monitoring and auditing mechanisms to track changes to environment variables.
                If implementing a secrets manager solution (explained in the next task), review its 
                encryption mechanisms and if it's a good fit for your development environments.















--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
