Incident Response and Management

Alert VS Incident :
        An alert's severity must be high enough to become an incident.

Incident Response :
        What happened ?
        Understand the scope of the incident

Incident Management :
        How do we respond to what happened ?


Levels of Incidents Response and Management :
        Level 1 : SOC Incident
        Level 2 : CERT Incident
        Level 3 : CSIRT Incident
        Level 4 : CMT Incident

The Process of Incident Management :
        Preparation :
                Identify and document key stakeholders and call trees that will be used during an incident
                Create and update playbooks that aid the team in following a set process for incidents with a known nature
                Exercise the team's ability to deal with an incident through tabletop exercises and cyber war games
                Continuously perform threat hunting to help create new alert rules based on modern attacker techniques
        Detection and Analysis ( and Triage ) :
                The triage step is responsible for determining the severity of the incident
        Containement
        Eradication
        Recovery
        Post-Incident Activity

Common Pitfalls During an Incident :
        Insufficient Hardening
        Insufficient Logging
        Insufficient Determination of Incident Scope
        Insufficient Accountability
        Insufficient Backups

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) created a document called Guidelines for Evidence Collection and Archiving, that provides the following volatility order with reasoning :
        Registers and Cache
        Routing Table, ARP Cache, Process Table, Kernel Statistics and Memory
        Temporary File Systems
        Disk
        Remote Logging and Monitoring
        Physical Configuration and Network Topology
        Archival Media

The Other Two Big DON'Ts :
        Don't trust the programs on the system
        Don't run programs that modify the access times of files

Chain of custody : A term used to describe ensuring that evidence can be used in legal proceedings

Some tasks that an engineer may have :
        Creating playbooks 
        Creating call trees

Playbook : Process that the blue team follows during an incident.
Call tree : The structure used to inform all the relevant parties about the incident.

Isolation of the Incident :
        Containment :
                Network Segmentation
                Physical Isolation
                Virtual Isolation
        Eradication
        Recovery

BCP = Business Continuity Plan
DRP = Disaster Recovery Plan
BAU = Business as Usual

As a security engineer, you may be responsible for creating a BCP.
Creating a BCP :
        Perform a Business Impact Analysis
        Define the Potential Recovery Actions
        Plan the BCP Team Structure        
        Test the BCP Plan
BCP Metrics :
        Recovery Point Objective : 
                The amount of data we are willing to accept can be lost
        Recovery Time Objective : 
                The amount of time required to recover the hardware of our system
        Work Recovery Time : 
                The amount of time required to recover the software and data of our system
        Maximum Tolerable Downtime : 
                The maximum amount of downtime that we are willing to accept. 
                We have to ensure that our RTO and WRT combined do not exceed this threshold
        Mean Time Between Failures :
                How long our system will operate between incidents on average
        Mean Time To Repair :
                How long it will take to recover our system on average


We have learned what it takes to become a first responder. To summarise:

        Make sure that you preserve evidence and understand that some evidence may be more volatile.
        Make sure that you understand how you should raise the alarm that an incident has occurred, whether through a ticket submission or a call tree.
        Isolation is key to ensuring that the scope of the incident can be contained. However, there are many different methods that can be used for isolation.
        BCP can be used to ensure that rapid changes can be made to help address the incident, but documentation is incredibly important to be able to retrace actions and get the environment back to business as usual as fast as possible.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
